When I was 12 years old, my father brought a PC home. My father was always interested in new technologies. We were the first famliy I knew with cable TV, we had an Atari, got a video camera when they hit the market, etc. The first time I ever saw a **car** phone was when he came home with one installed, later upgrading to a cell phone that didn't need to the car to function. He also made an early decision to bring tech to his trucking business, which was why we suddenly had a computer running Windows 3.1 in our home.

My parents were always pretty liberal with how I spent my time as long as I wasn't breaking anything and I was fascinated by the computer. I'm not sure when or how it happened, but I eventually found myself spending a lot of time with it alone. The computer came with a bunch of free software, so I spent a bunch of time installing all the apps one-by-one and seeing how they worked. I eventually broke something and not wanting my parents to get mad or take it away, I worked on it until it was fixed (this was pre-Internet), let out a huge **sigh** and told myself I would never do that again.

Of course that didn't happen, but I also learned at a very young age that discovery often comes through failure. 

There are many reasons I didn't pursue technology or programming early on in life. I was never good at school and the idea of doing more intensive learning for another 4 years seemed daunting. We didn't have a programming club at my high school and with my personal experience I felt unchallenged by the computer classes offered. But there was a TV production class. I took that class all four years of high school and learned so much about working and collaborating with other people and how to take an idea and make it into a reality.

I attribute a lot of our success in that class to the freedom our teacher brought to the program. He had no training in TV production, he just learned the same book he taught, but by giving us space to explore ideas we thrived as a group.

Unsuprisingly, my first job in tech was with iFilm.com, an online video streaming site for short films, movie trailers, music videos and other content. I was hired to expand an internal pay-per-click network they started to bring extra traffic to the site when ad inventory was higher than traffic could support. My manager found me at a production company that used to be in the same building and for some reason thought I could do this work.

He was right, though. While the traffic for the site grew, I expanded the network to provide as much as 500,000 visitors in a single day for a penny per visitor. While there, I also contributed to their original content, developed a system to distribute content to early mobile video providers and had a hand in making an appearance by [Jon Stewart on CNN's Hardball](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aFQFB5YpDZE) go viral, leading to the cancellation of the show. The video broke all previous records for views and viral content became more prominent on the site. The increased traffic and exposure got the site purchased by Viacom in 2007 and eventually folded it into Spike.com.

In 2009, I found myself unemployed after being laid off from a start-up and struggling to find work.
